# ada.md
###1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?   ____  >My interest to work with computers started a couple years ago when I had to “Frankenstein” my old computer to keep it going for another quarter at school. I ended up putting Linux on after upgrading the hardware.  I learned that I enjoy being more part of the process   This started a journey of going online and learning what else I could manipulate for fun and games. There are so many free courses online to choose from.  Ultimately I used Khan-academy first as well as TryRuby.org and Code.org. I immediately started to change what direction I wanted my learning to go, and investigated the steps I needed to take in order to turn programming into a career path.  This began with researching transfer degrees at SCCC that would fulfill the needed requirements.  I sought out advice from friends in the field and found a mentor to both guide and prepare me for the challenges ahead. I fully understand that programming includes so much more than the games and mini lessons I have tinkered with online. I also, however, know that I have what it takes and I have the confidence to emerge myself fully into making an entire career change. ___ ###2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years? ___   >My future professional goals center around the programming world. In 2 years I plan to have completed enough schooling in programming to obtain an entry-level position in the field. If this training does not happen through ADA, I will make it happen through other certificate programs. In 5 years I will be well into a programing job and be using this experience to further my job prospects by taking more leadership roles, mentoring emerging programmers, and taking advantaging of continuing education opportunities. I am open to many programming areas but my main interest is designing websites for companies and non-profits. My creativity and design skills are well suited for this career path so look out for my websites in 5 years!  ___  ###3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently? ___   >When I was 19, I was made a promise to help me get on my feet. A chance to get out of state, save some money, and have room and board. I jumped into this opportunity head first, without thinking of the consequences. It was a small logger’s town in Idaho, 2 hours away from any other city with little to no opportunities for work. The family I moved in with turned out to not have jobs themselves, and none of us had a vehicle.  My decision got me into this mess, and I quickly made a plan to get out. I got a job at the IGA there and worked in Subway and the store’s deli for minimum wage of 5.15 an hour. I worked hard, saved all I could over the course of a year to purchase a car for $1,000 to get back home to Washington state without looking back.  If I were encountering this situation again, I would have done my research first and looked at the job opportunities in the area. I would have seen that taking the first opportunity might not be the best option for me without looking at all the factors involved.   ___ ###4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it. ___  >I have faced multiple challenges in my life which have forced me to become self-reliant, resourceful, resilient, and relentless. In high school, I decided to learn to play the Bassoon, one of the hardest musical wind instruments available. Never being able to afford private lessons, I not only taught myself successfully, but I excelled and played with several honor bands along with the Bremerton Youth Symphony. That is one of many examples. I do notice a pattern over time in how I am able to independently teach myself skills. I first analyze the situation to see the big picture. I then break it down to the basics and create logical and realistic steps. Part of my process does allow for trial and error of course, but it is trial and error in very focused and creative ways. I am a creative problem solver, and utilize research, trial and error, and connecting with knowledgeable people to help achieve these goals. I approached learning the bassoon in this way. I researched how difficult this instrument was, I sought out help from my band director when he was available, and used trial and error. My persistence and relentlessness helped me the most.  
